the primary question that's been asked
about
transgenderism as a challenge the
political status quo is the question of
how can we be a tolerant society with
the question of who we is being quite a
bit different in a Christian society in
a Muslim society and in the
predominantly secular atheist liberal
and libertine societies that exist here
and there around the world that question
however is a little bit too easy
and maybe misleading and some of its
answers especially we turn to the much
tougher issues of gender reassignment
surgery and hormone replacement therapy
I think we have a problem right now in
the year 2020 and I think this is a
problem that's gonna solve itself of
basically treating transgender people
with the soft bigotry of low
expectations I did not coin that phrase
um when we look at the discourse
scientific as well as political
surrounding women's breast augmentation
so heterosexual biological women women
born as women who choose to have breast
implants you'll find right now in the
earth 2020 there's both skepticism and
real concern about disease and
disability caused by breast implants
some of those illnesses are still
matters of scientific speculation but
some are not when women with breast
implants complain that they have trouble
breathing that they have trouble
sleeping that they have trouble using
their shoulder joint and arm with the
full range of motion that they had
before the surgery those are
scientifically completely self
explanatory problems and they've been
studied I know by the US military
because the US military now has enough
women in service that some of those
women have
new breast augmentation surgery while
they were in the US military and then
some of those women can't do the same
tasks that used to do before they had
the surgery so you can imagine this is
like the ultimate research project for
kinesiology how does this actually
impair women's ability to I don't know
lift heavy objects perform certain kinds
of routine tasks in the Army routinely
if when a woman a heterosexual
biologically normal woman born as a
woman if if we're gonna start issuing
really stern warnings to women about the
risks they're taking the possible
lifetime of disease and disability
they're signing up for when they choose
to get breast augmentation why is it
that these questions are not being asked
these warnings are not being made as
soon as breast augmentation is attached
to the political aspirations of
transgenderism now I say again I am
genuinely sincerely interested in
pursuing a society in which transgender
people are tolerated and because I have
the experience of living in Thailand and
Laos two of the most trans positive
societies on earth I believe they are
the two most trans positive societies
they're very brief digression you know
when I was there males who dressed as
females were allowed to enroll in
university as females and live in female
quarters all kinds of government
paperwork official positions in life you
were allowed to declare your gender and
live as that gender and so on and just
in daily life everywhere at all ages you
saw transgender people living among the
elderly and among teenagers and among
middle-aged people in normal jobs
participating in society and in the most
recent elections in Thailand there were
quite a few transgender candidates and
has to be said they were not treated in
a sort of freakshow manner
I mean society there didn't freak out
like oh can you believe there's a
there's a man dressed as a woman running
for no it was normal it was recognized
okay this is a transgender
female person went in for election there
and then their political views were
interrogated to that extent like any
other candidate so the normalization of
transgender people the tolerance of
chancery of gender people and then
progressing towards a society where
there meaningful equal participants in
that society at selling I'm I'm
genuinely interested in however I don't
think that should come at the price of
dismissing the real health impacts of
breast implant surgery and as you know
this is not the only surgery now I only
mentioned so far the the mechanical
aspects of how breast augmentation
impacts women's health obviously just
the fact that breast augmentation can
ruin your quality of sleep again keep in
mind whether you are sleeping on your
back or sleeping on your side having
plastic bags full of silicone inserted
under your skin sometimes under a layer
of muscle to in your chest it's going to
impair your breathing it's going to
impair how you feel when you're lying to
sleep it's very obvious that this could
deteriorate your quality of sleep and
many women who have the surgery complain
of it and many women say that's one of
the reasons for having the fake breast
root the deterioration of your quality
of sleep can lead to the deterioration
of your emotional condition your
intellectual condition in every way I
mean I have to say for myself I'm still
sick right now
I've been sick and injured for almost 30
days solid now since December 17th up in
Sec and the main impact on my mental
acuity and emotional state is not the
illness itself it's the lack of sleep
that comes as a consequence than once so
that already is really much more serious
than people want to pretend it is
impaired breathing again as these
knock-on effects but most of what has
gotten newspaper headlines lately is
what's called breast implant illness
we're talking about an immune system
reaction to the presence of
stim plants that then can lead to joint
pain and an amazing array of seemingly
illnesses seemingly lacking an etiology
but it seems that and again there's some
scientific speculation here it seems
that these things are a result of the
immune system attacking the breast
implants and then confusion with the
immune system leading to attacking their
joints so on and so forth so if you have
a sexual identity if you have a
political movement that is premise on
denying the the very real medical
disadvantages of surgical intervention
then youyou have a political movement
that is bad for the health of its own
adherence and you have a very strange
widening gulf between the sort of get
tough attitude of medical doctors when
they're talking to heterosexual women
about this procedure breast augmentation
and when they're talking to men who are
wanting to become male to female
transgender people in transition now
under the heterosexual women category
just note you may be imagining someone
who is just out of vanity getting breast
augmentation medical doctors today in
2020 have to have very very tough
conversations with women who have lost
their breast to breast cancer who may
have scars on their chest from breast
cancer and they may have very tough
conversations with women who've had car
accidents you know there are so many car
accidents that yes it's common enough to
have an injury to your chest in a car
accident where women may be wanting
breast augmentation just to try to
recover a sense of normalcy after an
accident like that as you know scarified
or damaged their their chest their
appearance in that way and you can
imagine no difficulty to be a doctor to
say look here are the advantages and
disadvantages with breast augmentation
here are the short term and long term
concerns for how this can destroy your
health and really destroy your quality
of life and then to say look even if
really it would make you feel better
about yourself if it would alleviate
some dysphoria you have about your
appearance because a woman who survived
breast cancer
so on that dysphoria may be very real
and very intense maybe the best thing
for you to do is to refuse nevertheless
to have this breast augmentation
procedure now when you turn to hormones
we live in a very peculiar era when
government guidelines are in flux on the
issue of foreign hormones I travel all
around the world partly because of my
divorce when I go to visit my daughter I
go to various countries in Europe some
countries I passed through allow the
private sector to advertise testosterone
as if it were hair dye as if they were
just saying to middle-aged men hey you
have some gray hairs try out hair dye
make you feel young again make you feel
better original there are some countries
where testosterone and hormone
supplementation of this kind in a
completely for-profit way is being
advertised and of course the side
effects the risk for your health are
minimized or dismissed there are other
countries where obviously this is
illegal or being regulated and within
just last few years as you probably know
there have been very sudden shifts in
how a technology like vaping which is to
say the ingestion of nicotine through
vapor how that is and isn't allowed to
be advertised and promoted and how it is
and isn't allowed to be done so I think
right now in the year 2020 we maybe have
not yet come to the point where the
controversy over the use of hormones
including on a mass scale men using
testosterone booster unnecessarily where
we haven't yet come to a state of alarm
and debate about it in the way that
people are now alarmed about and
debating silicone implants breast
augmentation surgery but that day is
inevitably going to come I've seen just
to transgender youtubers speak openly
about the really negative impacts that
hormone replacement therapy had in their
lives and I just wanna clarify these are
not X transgender people they are people
hoody transition these are transgender
people who transitioned both surgically
and through hormone closure and who have
continued their transition there so
their overall happy with their
transition but nevertheless they came on
YouTube and made videos really warning
that this completely destroyed their sex
drive and had absolutely horrible
effects on their mood now
likewise with heterosexual men men who
are born as men biological men using
testosterone booster in the short term
the dangers and disadvantage of this may
not be obvious but you put yourself in a
situation where long term you can never
know you can never be confident with
your own testosterone levels you may
never be able to return to relying on
your body's own production of
testosterone and you could have a series
of nagging minor but nevertheless
soul-destroying health problems that
then haunt you until the day you die
because you destroyed your body's
ability to produce and control natural
levels of hormones this is not a minor
or trivial thing now the outward
physical effect of the use of hormone
booster hormone supplementation is
obvious to everyone it was especially
obvious to me when I went to a gym in
China this is when I was living in
Kunming China I was veg pressing over
200 pounds so I think sometimes 200
pounds I was 250 pounds it's not it's
not a lot of white guys it's really not
but I was surrounded by Chinese guys who
really had a sort of movie star or
bill-to had much more much more puffy
muscles than I did and some of them were
bench pressing 25% of the weight I was
pitch pressing so I'm I'm bench pressing
over 200 pounds at their bench pressing
a little more than 50 pounds you know I
just couldn't believe it they were
lifting so little weight and getting
these results
and of course the the of course they
could be on various
performance-enhancing drugs but the most
likely suspect is testosterone boosters
testosterone supplementation you know
this is the desired effect that men are
lining up and paying for but the other
effects the effect on ego mood behavior
your sense of happiness or unhappiness
your sense of frustration your sense of
anger these things are really scary
they're really terrifying to deal with
that in some sense you're not just
tampering with your appearance you are
tampering with your very soul I don't
say that as an exaggeration
I've had some female friends none of
these women were really my girlfriends
or wives but I've had some female
friends who really suffered extreme mood
changes when their period came around so
you know once a month and you know I
really was aware of it there were women
I spent time with and it seemed like
their whole character changed their
whole emotional character their whole
intellectual character change for those
few days when they suffered through that
hormonal state well what you're doing
your body when you take exogenously eyes
performed sensing drugs or in order to
effect a gender transition is you're
throwing your body into a hormonal
crisis that is in no way evolved to cope
with as difficult as it may be for women
for some women at least to cope with the
monthly hormonal cycle with
administration and as difficult as it
may be for some women to cope with
menopause those are hormonal states we
have millions of years of evolution
rehearsing we have practice on an
evolutionary scale coping with those
they're within the normal range of
states that we could we can cope with as
a man if you tinker with that whether
for the purposes of making yourself look
more masculine shall we say or for the
purposes of making yourself look more
feminine you're rolling the dice in a
way you're taking a risk where again
apart from the you know simple medically
documented
illnesses that may be brought about when
when you lose your temper as a man when
you lose control would you want to live
with the nagging doubt that maybe you
did that maybe you acted that way maybe
you felt that way because of the
steroids you're on because the
testosterone boost your own because of
the the drugs you're using and when you
tamper with your hormone levels this is
a mood altering drug that doesn't just
affect you for a few hours of the day
it's not it's not like taking cocaine
for example this is something that is
going to affect the way you see and feel
24 hours a day every day in the case of
transgender people use these hormones
for a long long time they may be
planning on doing it for the rest of
their lives so given that there is a
real sense of seriousness with which we
advise our own sons you may be advising
your brother or uncle or grandfather to
be really really careful about messing
with their hormone levels even if this
can offer you the body of your dreams
let's say a sudden increase in muscle
mass and what-have-you and there's no
doubt by the way the science facts that
up also taking testosterone booster as a
man can dramatically alter your physique
with very minimal effort at the gym or
if you have a son who wants to
transition and gender shouldn't there be
some really sincere discussion here of
the disadvantages and as I say just now
just in the last couple months I've
heard a couple of transgender youtubers
coming out and speaking about the fact
that hey from their experience in one
case she said that it was the complete
end of her sex drive as you feel no
sexual desire at all
that this was like in her words she
called it quote a chemical castration
close quote so this is a really
traumatic really serious change in your
character and your behavior and how you
feel and how you perceive the world and
just like the bodybuilder you're taking
on that risk you know to change your
appearance
and again my interest with
transgenderism politically is just how
to have a society that tolerates these
people and then works well and having
lived in Thailand and Laos I already
know it's pretty easy to have a society
that in this way can be tolerant and
work well we can all get along I would
say this transgender people do not
present a challenge to society even to
the same extent that religious people do
in as much as many religious people for
example want to have arranged marriage
arranged marriage is actually very deep
and difficult to handle challenge to our
social norms should you allow parents to
choose to their their children get
married to at any age mmm this is not
that's probably not something we can
tolerate as a society proudly you know
we need to intervene and say no no no
children have to choose their own
partners by the way that was a huge
political struggle in communist China
China also had a tradition of arranged
marriage and the government had to
intervene and say no children have to
choose who their contemporary themselves
and it's still it's still a struggle in
Chinese culture less today than it was
50 years ago obviously so I mean the the
challenge of accepting and tolerating
and including transgender people I think
that's relatively easy all right but in
as much as the transgender movement
attaches itself dogmatically to the
defense of and the advancement of
hormone replacement therapy at all costs
or breast augmentation surgery at all
costs or other potentially are actually
debilitating surgeries treatments or
what-have-you at all costs then they
they put themselves in a position where
they're going to need to examine an
answer very very difficult questions
very high level of scrutiny you know in
terms of the consequences for their own
members their own adherence for their
health for their ability to really leave
bleed positive and thriving lives now
with all this haven't been said let's
close with a brief statement about the
demon that justifies all these things
that brings about a halt to all further
rational inquiry or debate and that is
the demon of dysphoria what many
transgender activists will tell you
at least in casual discussions is that
any suffering is justified whether it's
the suffering of literally cutting your
penis off or it's the suffering of in
the case of female to male various
hormonal treatments surgeries that cut
the breasts off so on and so forth
that the suffering of various forms of
body modification hormone replacement
therapy in zone that all of this is
justified because the experience of
dysphoria is so terrible is so
challenging for them it's really
worthwhile to look up the etymology of
the word dysphoria and you'll find that
the word really has no meaning more
specific than misery people do
experience misery with their own bodies
they really do but I'd like you to
imagine for a moment the position of a
medical doctor who's approached by an 18
year old girl eighteen year old young
woman biological woman born as woman an
18 year old who comes in and says she's
unhappy with her body and she wants the
doctor to give her breast implant
surgery right now in the year 2020 you
can imagine there is a kind of moral
onus on the doctor to say to this one
woman young woman look you're 18 years
old now maybe right now you feel this is
your top priority in life but here are
the risks here are the disadvantages
here are the long-term consequences this
can bring about your life and you know
what the other thing is when you're 28
years old you might not care about this
as much as you do right now you might
think right now that at age 18 having
this surgery that's gonna change your
appearance it's really gonna mean so
much to you positively but you know what
as you get older and more mature and
gain another perspective you might you
might regret it later just for that
reason because you might look back on
your 18 year old self and feel that this
was an immature decision apart from the
very real disadvantages to your health
that I've just mentioned you might also
say to this 18 year old girl you know
you might want to join the army one day
you might want to play a sport
one day that you know having breast
augmentation surgery who really puts you
at a disadvantage for you know
significantly apart from all the other
problems we've we've just mentioned I
think there really would be a kind of
moral onus on the doctor to talk this
through and this is just talking about a
heterosexual young woman who wants to
present press toget issue that raises
how much greater is the onus on a doctor
to talk to an 18 year old young man who
says he wants exactly the same surgery
so that he can transition from being
perceived in public as a man to being
perceived in public as a woman the
disadvantages are tremendous a doctor
who today in the year 2020 has an 18
year-old boy come in 18 year old young
man heterosexual born biological male
and he says to the doctor that he's
unhappy with his body he says the doctor
he feels dysphoria when he looks in the
mirror because he's skinny and he has no
muscles and he's tried so hard to gain
muscles at the gym he's made all these
efforts he wants the doctor to prescribe
him testosterone booster okay there must
be thousands of doctors every month who
have this kind of situation and you know
what the skinny 18 year old guy and the
flat-chested 18 year old girl they
probably could go to a psychiatrist or
psychotherapist who would write a formal
letter to the surgeon saying officially
this teenager experiences dysphoria this
girl when she sees herself in the mirror
and she's flat-chested feels dysphoria
this 18 year old guy he's really
attached to the notion that you got to
have more muscles better physical
development and he really experiences
dysphoria and you know what we could add
a sympathetic note to either example
maybe both of these kids the
flat-chested girl and the guy with poor
muscles let's say both of them survived
a car accident that really made it very
difficult for them to develop physically
they have some kind of injury or illness
that made their struggle to be
physically normal or physically
attractive all the more psychological
principle the world is
full of examples like that dysphoria is
not unique to the transgender experience
and I think it's very difficult to trace
out what it would or would not justify
now this particular 18 year old girl who
comes to the doctor and says this you
know there are alternatives there are
alternatives to getting breast implant
surgery and one of the alternatives is
also simply to wear a padded bra you
know and there may be ways in which
that's somewhat humiliating or
challenging or inconvenient or you don't
know if you want to live with it it's
like I can understand that all right I
really can but I think if you look at
the known risks the known disadvantages
of breast augmentation surgery and the
fact that this would be a decision
you're making that changes the rest of
your life irrevocably unlike hair dye
you can choose to dye your hair and
later get a new haircut I think any
doctor would probably be commended for
taking the time to say that young woman
well maybe you should think about a
non-surgical approach to this so I make
this video at a time when I've had
contact with just a few people who were
transgender but who were themselves
struggling to find a voice in the
transgender movement to define
themselves as transgender but opposed to
surgery to define themselves as
transgender but skeptical about hormones
or as outright opposed to hormones and
those people may end up having to adopt
a new political identity or even a new
gender identity because what they
encounter again and again is the
hostility of transgender people who are
deeply committed to justifying the
surgery and justifying the hormone
therapy as a core part of their
political identity as well as being part
of their gender identity this is a
debate that in the next 20 years in the
Western world is yet to unfold